In this lesson, we're going to look at how
to use list comprehensions with files, and
this will provide
an even more graphic example of how those
comprehensions can
save you coding time, over doing it the
traditional way.
So, let's start a new program.
We'll call this listcomp2.py.
So what we want to do is, we want to open
a file
of numbers, numbers that are stored in a
text file, in this case,
grades, and then we want to be able to
store them in a
list, so we can perform some sort of task
on them in memory.
So the way that we would do that
traditionally, would
be the first thing we would do is open the
file.
Assign it to a file object and then
perhaps we might read it in to a list.
Using the read lines function off the file
object.
Then notice what happens when we read in
the grades.
Each grade has a new line character
attached to it.
Again, because we stored the grades
initially as
a text file, so they're stored as strings.
So what we need to do is we need to strip
those newline characters off, so the
way we're gonna do that, again doing it
traditionally, is to access each element
in the list.
And strip that character off the end using
the r strip function.
And so when we're finished, we should then
have the grades saved without the new line
character.
Let's take a look.
It's running again, and sure enough, it
works.
But to perform that complete task, took
one, two, three, four,
five, well, six lines if you count the two
print statements.
Four lines taking off the two print
statements, or print function calls.
So, we can do that easier with a list
comprehension, so let me demonstrate how
to do that.
First, let's comment out all these other
lines.
So to do it with a list comprehension,
we're going to say grades equal
and because a file is just another
sequence of
data, we can access it with a for Loop
when we did this in the previous chapter.
Just as if it was a list, for example.
So, in one line, in one expression, we can
open the file.
Read the grades in.
Strip off the trailing new line.
Store it in our list.
Then to show how it works, we can print
the grades in the list.
Let's save that.
Go back to our command prompt.
Clear the screen.
And run the program, and there we go.
So
this was a simple example of how to write
a list comprehension with a file.
In the exercise that follows, I'll provide
you
with a little more advanced, or complex
example.
Right here, I wanted to show you just
very dramatically, well, sort of
dramatically, how a
list comprehension can be used with the
file,
and again, save you quite a bit of coding.
And with that, we're ready to move on to
the exercise for this short chapter, where
I'm going to show you a more complex
example of using a list comprehension with
a file.